>> Richard Feldman: So on the big tapes,
we're gonna talk about four things.
First is the concept of module boundaries.
Second is opaque types themselves.
Third is validated data.
And fourth is when not to go opaque.
Okay.
Let's start by talking about
module boundaries.
So here is a type,
a custom type we've created.
It says type email equals
valid email string.
The comments says th is guaranteed to be
a valid email address which s a bold claim
to make considering there is no
validation going on here whatsoever.
Is there someway we can
make that comment true?
Well there is from a module perspective.
But not if we do this.
So if this is our module heading this is
module email exposing email parenthesis
dot dot double parenthesis dot dot right
there means that we can't actually make
any guarantees about how
this thing is constructed.
The (..) means that we are exposing
this ValidEmail variant.
We're saying that even though this is our
only variant, any module that imports
the email module can construct one
of these themselves if they want to.
Not only that but
they can pattern match on it.
They can look into it, see what it's got,
modify it and make a new one.
So this claim that this is guaranteed
to be a valid email address just can't
possibly hold as long as
we're exposing this variant.
Okay, but let's say that we wanted
to do a little bit better and
we wanted to make it so that we could
actually enforce this in variant.
The way we will do this is by
not exposing that variant.
We would say, this is going to expose
email type which means that other modules
can import it so
they can use it in their annotations.
But we have not expose
this ValidEmail variant.
Nobody else can do that, only within this
module can this thing can be instantiated.
And then we can expose various ways
to obtain one of these email values
in a different without
constructing it directly.
So we can say, we'll have a fromString
function, which takes a string and
then returns a result with either a string
error, just describing what went wrong,
ie this email address doesn't have
an at sign in it so it's not valid.
It's missing the domain, so
it's not valid,
some description of what went wrong.
And then in the event that it did
successfully get converted from a string
to a valid email,
then we provide you with an email.
And then of course we could offer
a toString to let you go back
from an Email to a String.
Because that's an important thing to
be able to do when you're rendering
things on the screen.
But with this API,
because of this module boundary and
the fact that we're not exposing
this one variant that it has.
We've made it so that it's not possible
for someone to obtain an email value
in any other module, without having
gone through this fromString function,
without having run through
this validation that ends up
giving us an email only
if the validation passed.
And now the comment's actually accurate.
It really is guaranteed to be valid email
address because if you've obtained one,
you must have obtained it through
this validation function.